As your data science team is rolling
along, one thing that you need to be able
to do is evaluate the success and
define metrics that are useful for
people so
they know what targets they need to hit.
So, on one level,
you need to talk about group success,
what's the success of
a data science group?
So, success can be defined
in a few different ways.
One is solving organizational problems.
So, say for example, we want to
increase user growth by a certain
percentage by a certain amount of time.
So, to do that,
requires a couple of different things.
It requires careful use of the data.
Good analysis.
Good infrastructure for
building out how is the data gonna be
used once we actually figure out
what's going on with the data.
All those sorts of things
need to be built into that.
And you can identify these
organizational problems as a way,
as a target to try to hit.
Now, sometimes data is useful for
those and sometimes it isn't.
So setting specific targets like that,
like a percent growth increase,
can be very hard to hit all the time.
So you need to be able
to internally calibrate.
When is it that we've actually explored an
avenue, we improved things, but maybe we
didn't hit the target that we initially
hypothesized we might be able to do.
Another is to solve internal problems.
Say the data security isn't
quite where you'd want it to do.
Maybe that there's some
sort of technical debt.
Say, you have a bunch of code,
but its kind of bad quality code.
It gets the job done but
nobody can understand it and
there's no documentation, so.
Solving an internal problem
might be cleaning up the code,
cleaning up the documentations, and
getting it ready for other people to use.
Those sort of targets tend to be
targets that are more concrete and
definable and easy to hit.
And so there tends to be
a tendency to set up internal
problems that you want to solve because
they tend to be things that can be
easily be solved in
a finite period of time.
Whereas organizational goals tend
to be a little bit more vague.
And, they tend to be
a little bit harder to hit,
because the data don't necessarily always
do exactly what you want them to do.
So, metrics for success can either
be very concrete or they can be,
are we progressing in the direction that
we want to be moving in terms of the data
science infrastructure, the data
science team for the organisation.
So, being able to
prioritize those metrics.
Vague metrics versus very specific metrics
is a key juggling job of the data science
executive or manager.
Another thing is individual success,
so documenting and managing, and
celebrating individual success.
So, one way to do that is
by identifying projects,
specific projects individuals can work on.
And when they've completed that project,
you can document that as a success.
But it's often not that easy with data
science because usually to solve a big
data science problem for an organization,
you need to build some data engineering
infrastructure, you need to analyze
some data, do some experiments.
Once you've done those experiments you
need to figure out how to implement it,
back at scale, then you need to do another
evaluation once you've scaled it up.
Is it still working?
That involves multiple people at
multiple different times on multiple
different levels.
So it's a little bit hard to monitor
individual success by completion
of specific projects.
It's often easier to monitor, you know,
day to day activities, or week to week
activities in meetings, are they
participating, are they contributing, do
other people seem like their getting what
they need from your data engineering team?
Is the data scientist able to pull
the data that they need and so forth.
Personal improvement,
are they learning new techniques?
As the organization grows and
you go from needing one database
to needing multiple databases, is your
engineer learning how to manage that,
how to set up the infrastructure
in a way that works?
And is there a way they can
sort of personally improve and
hit goals for themselves?
The next thing is you
need to examine failure.
This is obviously the least fun and
hardest part.
One thing is to take responsibility as a
data science manager when there's failure,
particularly externally facing.
So, for example, it's very common for
a hypothesis to be generated,
maybe by some leadership organization.
They come down and they ask the data
science team to run some experiments.
They run those experiments,
maybe they don't find anything.
The leadership might
think of that as failure,
you might recognize that as just
the way that data science works.
But it's up to you to
take responsibility and
to remove some of the heat from the people
that are doing the experiments so
they can feel sort of empowered
to do it the right way.
The next thing is to identify problems.
So sometimes there's lack of communication
between either external people talking to
the data science team, or sometimes
there's the data science team itself isn't
communicating between the data
engineers and the data scientists.
Sometimes people aren't working on
the problem that needs to be solved.
They're working on sort of
a variety of different projects and
they need to be consolidated.
But in general, identifying what's
the data problem that you're working on,
is a key component of it.
And then, proposing concrete steps and
people responsible for
taking those steps is a key
component of examining failure.
The other thing is and this is the
critical one, is that treating failure and
data science.
If you don't find the right
prediction accuracy you want, or
you don't get the infrastructure
built exactly like you would I do,
in an idealized world, will often scare
people off from trying new things and
being creative and
really adding value to your organization.
So, you need to think of failure,
not as, did we hit the exact target
metric, but did we, in the right way,
use the right process in order to try to
achieve that and was the process good.
Again, it's about process and
not necessarily about outcomes
as a data science team,
particularly for large scale, vague
institutional goals that you might have.
And finally, the last thing that you
need to do is celebrate success.
So, when people do well at data science
it's often a long slog to solve some
very hard data coding problem,
data cleaning problem,
then they build a machine
learning algorithm.
And often the reaction is, well yeah
we expected you to be able to do that
machine learning algorithm great and
then moving on and there's sort of,
can over time this can grind people
down because of the nature of the work.
Its helpful if there's a celebration
of success, oh we really got that done,
really good job, to the data team,
you did an excellent
job we're moving on to the next thing and
that's been a huge part of your success.
Especially if you can show
them how that success has sort
of realized in other areas.
Have they you know improved metrics for
your organizations,
in a way that they can brag about.
This keeps people motivated,
especially when it get's frustrating,
which it often does.